Citizen Journalism (A Media Hacking Primer) by, Terrordrone
============================================================
Does Glenn Beck or Kieth Olberman speak for you? Me neither (if they do just
stop reading now as this article may induce vomiting, head ache and
uncontrollable rage.) Now I'm not here to put anyone down both of the above men
and their brethren on cable news networks and local news are very good at their
jobs. Unfortunately the main focus of the job is not reporting news, it's
selling a product. Commercial news sources are a business and businesses exist
to turn a profit. Commercial news does this with sponsors be it television,
radio, Internet or print. There in lies the problem the businesses can't afford
to upset the sponsors. So ideas such as ethics, integrity and honor fall aside
for profit. Citizen journalism also known as "public", "participatory",
"democratic”, “guerrilla" or "street journalism" has no sponsor, no editors,
no corporate overlords to appease.

Citizen journalism is not a modern phenomena in fact we can trace it back to the
earliest forms of communication. Throughout history powerful and often corrupt
organizations have done everything within their power to spin public opinion to
view facts and ideas to suit themselves. Most fortunate for us, people and
groups stood up against churches, governments and the such in power to spread
other truths and ideas. Benjamin Franklin had "Poor Richard's Almanac" and
Martin Luther had “95 Theses”. In the modern era technology has given us
much better tools in our arsenal.

Our first tool is also the oldest form of mass media next to screaming in the
streets. Printed word. Some will say the printed word is dead.  I say they are
wrong.  First, we have the old media style of paper and ink. Every town has a
store like Kinkos, Staples or even better, a locally owned store that can make
mass copies at a decent price. Get some copies of your report or get together
with some friends who write get a stapler and you have yourself a 'Zine. This
can be a bit tricky to distribute when starting out. So we have a cheaper and
even easier way for you to get your written words out. Wordpress and Tumblr are
just two examples of free blog services out there. Get a blog, start writing and
spread the word it's really that simple. Also out there are micro blog services
like Twitter and Facebook which allow you to easily connect with friends and
family and have them see your work.

Our next weapon against the corporate fueled media is the radio or the spoken
word. First, let me point out that I fully support and will help defend pirate
radio broadcast but alas it is still illegal and the government can and will do
everything they can to shut you down and punish you. If you are still interested
in starting a pirate broadcast I suggest googling and reading “Radio is my
Bomb” and check out Free Radio Berkley for good information on the technology,
building, running, legal issues and history of this form of citizen journalism.
Worried about the FCC kicking in your door and slamming you face first to the
floor? Fear not there is a legal outlet for you, too. Pod-casts. Pod-casts are
great, they require little technical skill, very little equipment and there are
free hosting sites out there such as Podbean and Mypodcast. The best part is
your listeners can download and take it with them to listen whenever they have
the time.

Youtube is the king of free video hosting and a fairly easy service to use and
with a wide variety  of video cameras out there you have your counter to the
for profit video media. Youtube does have its problems though mainly a lot of
bogus DMCA take downs. So be warned if you say something that pisses someone
off, be prepared for them to come up with some BS to try and take you down. In
fact that applies for all the above. People in power absolutely loath people
exercising freedom.

Yes, its true you may see something or report on something that will really get
under someone's skin (that is why we do this to expose what the corporate news
won't or expose the spin they put on it) and they will probably have some lawyer
who will try and twist the law to go after you, but you are not alone. The EFF
is a great source for legal advice and are out there fighting for your rights.
So support them for they support you.

Okay, so you have to tools, you have the will, now what do you report on? The
beauty of it is whatever you want. Whatever floats your boat. Your rants don't
even need a motif. If you want to write about your local hackerspace then follow
it up with an article about local government corruption, go ahead, you're your
own boss in this, you make the rules. Your local hackerspace is more likely to
talk to you than a politician or big business will, but I think an article on
how one of these avoided your questions says a lot about the person running away
from you.

Now, just because you run the show doesn't give you the right to abuse it.
First, have some integrity. Maybe you don't like someone, that's cool, but don't
go editing comments or video to make this person look the way you want them to.
The commercial media does this enough. Second, be firm, but don't be an ass. If
you score an interview with someone you don't agree with, ask your questions,
challenge their comments, but don't go in there and insult them. Now I'm not
telling you to pucker up for them either. Question and challenge everything,
just don't be a tool while doing it. Once again, the corporate media already
does this. Lastly, you don't have to go alone. Check out your local free press,
local 2600 meetings or just get together with like minded friends. Now get out
there, find some truth and show it to the world.