Collaboration, Domains, Gratification by, Penguin
==================================================
Sitting at my desk today considering this save our site contest I find myself
wondering why such a thing is necessary. Looking back at the history of our
venerated gathering it always seemed like a great place to come and learn and to
experience the excellent social atmosphere of a group of highly intelligent
tinkerers, makers, and hackers. The site always had plenty of traffic and the
forums were a-buzz with activity, often so much that it was difficult to keep up
with all the active threads. So how then did we arrive at this point in such bad
shape that we are literally begging for content? What has changed in the last 6
years? maybe a brief rehash of our sorted past would be a good place to begin
this search.

As best I can recall the site was birthed from the mind of Logic, who along with
Rax, Dual, Lost, and others had founded the group. I'm not entirely aware of how
the group started as I was not one of the initial members. I recall Rax's
stories of meeting Dual and believing that he may be an agent of the Fed, and I
distinctly recall the first meeting I ever attended. On the second floor of the
Borders building in central PHX, I remember seeing a sorted looking group of no
more than a dozen people near the small refreshment area. Nak, Myself and a few
others pulled up a chair at a table next to them and then Rax looked over at us
casually and said "we wont bite" and to his credit they never did. We were
invited into the group with open arms even though most of us had nothing to
contribute, at least immediately. It was either that meeting or the next one
where we assembled the "magnetics" portion of an Ethernet jack with Lost. At the
time I had no idea how to apply such a thing. Today I look back and see that I
have clearly grown since then. Implementing my own Ethernet devices with similar
circuitry.

Since then we have been a migratory force of destruction. Moving from borders to
Nick's pizza, then Counter Culture Cafe, Willow house, and Unlimited. Each time
we would settle in and each time the venue would go out of business. Even
recently Unlimited coffee which we are still looking to replace. Maybe this lack
of an established venue is part of the cause of our waning interest levels. Even
I have felt disappointed that our group hasn't found a more compatible meeting
location with resources and space for our use. Many hacker-spaces including the
local HSL have established workshops with computing resources and tools at their
disposal. Our group is however very informal, there are no official members, no
head organization, no board of leaders. So maybe it is suiting that we also have
an informal meeting place as we have for so long. Having no formal structure or
official members we also do not accrue any kind of funding, which means any
projects or collaborations must find funding or donations from generous members
or outside sources. I believe this leaves us limited as far as group
collaboration potential. This is evident in that our group hasn't produced any
truly interesting collaborations since the Universal VIP project or possibly
metacab back in 06.

This kind of stagnation is a mystery to me. I have been to several of the recent
meetings and I know we have plenty of members who attend and I know many of them
have great exciting ideas for projects, It just seems like most of these ideas
are stillborn. Imagination without the knowledge to implement or possibly the
other way around. But that's why the forums were always a great resource,
combining people with ideas, and people with the technical background to get it
done. People with hardware and software backgrounds could exchange info and help
each other out. I know this kind of exchange still takes place at the meetings
and around the internet. The only thing I can figure is that people either don't
know about these forums or have lost interest in this kind of collaboration
medium in favour of newer social mediums, (Facebook, Twitter, Git, Etc.) If this
is the case maybe we should look at adopting these mediums as part of this
website, I believe we already have a twitter account dedicated to phx2600 events
and discussion. And I think it gets more traffic than the forums. It would also
be possible to adopt other sites for this kind of collaboration. For instance
Instructables.com has a fantastic layout for doing collaborative builds, yet we
have no phx2600 Instructables group that I am aware of.

Below is an graph of the recent trends of a few key players in internet
socializing

RED = Facebook
YELLOW = Twitter
BLUE = Forums
GREEN = IRC

So so far we have hit two points which might be addressed to bring the group
back into focus, Solidifying meeting locations/resources and adopting more novel
socializing and collaborative mediums. However there is at least one more point
which must be addressed. Interest, there is no need for a meeting place or
social mediums if we have no interest. With this in mind the question must be
asked Is it worth continuing these meetings? Is there enough interest? Are we
serving a genuine interest or need with these gatherings? or are we simply
passing the time as a group? This is an interesting point because it seems like
a bit of both. In my opinion we seem to gather almost out of boredom, seeking
something to do and then because of our similar interests we end up talking
about security / code / hardware related stuff even if we came to the meetings
with no particular goal in mind. This is of course punctuated by presentations
and demos which happen on occasion. And this is fine, obviously if you come to
the meeting bored and leave with some project ideas or at least some inspiration
then the meeting has been a success. However only in a limited fashion as the
group is capable of much more than just providing casual social interaction for
a few hours. With the attendance we garner we could easily be pulling off much
more significant feats. Contests, think Defcon bots [1], High altitude balloons
[2], UAVs. Social displays, think LED Throwies [3] or Floaties [4], Improv
Everywhere [5]. Or even creating our own badges for Defcon. But again, maybe
there is simply no interest in these things. In which case it seems that the
majority of group meetings will continue to be little more than drinks and
discussions.

I guess it will be interesting to see where we go from here.

Links:
------
[1] http://defconbots.org/
[2] http://www.heatsynclabs.org/syncfleet-launch-great-success/
[3] http://graffitiresearchlab.com/projects/led-throwies/
[4] http://www.instructables.com/id/LED-Floaties-That-float-away/
[5] http://www.improveverywhere.com/


Comments
--------

Posted by, terrordrone on 2010-09-07 15:53:08

some of this was addressed at the last meeting by rax. as for group projects its
a great idea unfortunately phx area is very spread out making it hard to get to
with each other often mix in family, work and school even harder but with the
ideas that rax brought up this past meeting this problem too is being addressed

* * *

Posted by, terrordrone on 2010-09-07 16:05:12

discuss this here
http://www.phx2600.org/forum/viewtopic.php?f=7&t=1288
