Password Cracking on UNIX by, maxwell
======================================
INTRODUCTION

This article describes the basics of cracking user passwords stored in the
/etc/passwd and /etc/shadow directories. The passwd directory stores information
regarding groups, uids, usernames, and passwords, in the following format:

misty:x:501:501::/home/misty:/bin/bash

where x is the password. This article will use John the Ripper to crack user
passwords and display them as plain text.

NOTE: The methods described in the following text were performed on Red Hat
Enterprise Linux 5 Server Edition. Although that shouldn't matter and this
information should be accurate in any UNIX environment, if something is not
working and you use Ubuntu, that may be the problem. However, if you are using
Ubuntu, you have much more serious problems than we can solve here.

INSTALLING JOHN THE RIPPER

The first step is to download John the Ripper
(http://www.openwall.com/john/g/john-1.7.6.tar.gz) and install it. To install
extract everything to your home directory (or whatever directory you want, but I
use /root/) and go into the src directory. Enter the command "make" and then
enter the command "make clean generic". Now go into the "run" directory and test
out the program through the following commands:

cd ../run
./john --test

RUNNING JOHN THE RIPPER

Now that you have successfully installed john the ripper (if you haven't, try
using "john" instead of "./john") it is time to use it to crack user passwords
on your UNIX system. Type the following commands into your terminal to give the
program the information it needs to begin brute forcing password hashes (by the
way I highly recommend adding more words to the file password.lst in the run
directory, since this is the wordlist we will be using to try and crack
passwords with):

./john password.lst
./unshadow /etc/passwd /etc/shadow > /tmp/crack.password.db

check the file /tmp/crack.password.db and see where the x used to be, and the
string now there instead of that x is the password. If it still isnt showing the
password, use the following command:

./john /tmp/crack.password.db

Be warned that that process takes forever, but once it's finally done, check
./john --show and you should be able to see each password that was cracked along
with the corresponding username.

Congrats! You've just cracked the passwords of the users on your UNIX system!


Comments
--------

Posted by, Anonymous Coward on 2010-09-01 14:50:42

[CENSORED]
