Phoenix 2600 VIP 2.0 Project by, XlogicX
=========================================
ASSIGNMENT:

Step 1: Sign up for VIP cards (use fake info) in the following 4 stores:
Albertsons
Frys
Safeway
Bashas

Step 2: When you go to the store, try using a VIP card for the wrong store:
Example: go to Frys and use your Safeway club card.

Step 3: Report to the forums. Please report the what store the vip card is
supposed to be for, the first 6 digits of the barcode, what store you tried it
on, and if it worked or not.

Step 4: Goto Step 2 Until research is done

Whoever submits their results on the forums will be listed below as members of
this project. Please don't make stuff up either, we want a working
product...well I do atleast. Don't worry about being secretive with this. I
sometimes prefer going to normal checkout (not self-checkout). I just say "hey,
I'm curious, but could you see if this VIP card works." Or just tell them your
doing a research project for school. Honestly, with most of them, you don't even
have to give them a story. But then again, those of you that have used the first
generation VIP card know that. I will have a Open Office Calc file with the
results in progress of the data collected below.

--------------------------------

PROTOTYPES:

VIP 2.0 Version 1 (This one works, but it's two codes)

VIP 2.0 Version 2 (After testing, this one is not consistant at Albertsons)

VIP 2.0 Version 3 (Testing; failed at Albertson again, turns out the checksum
was bad): The idea of this one is to cover up one of the colored circles with a
thumb or finger. If covering green doesn't work at albertsons, cover the blue,
this should work in thoery...hence the testing.

VIP 2.0 Version 4 (Testing): Same idea as version 3.

VIP 2.0 Version 5 (Testing): A legit looking version.
 [1]
[download id="4"]

RESEARCH DEPARTMENT:

 XlogicX
Medicine_Soup
Zapperlink
Energizer
Threepts

GRAPHIC DESIGN:

 Threepts (front)
XlogicX (back)

PROTOTYPE TESTERS:

 TBA 

MATERIALS:

 Medicine_Soup (hopefully) 

Links:
------
[1] http://www.phx2600.org/graphix/vip/VIP25.bmp


Comments
--------

Posted by, XlogicX on 2008-09-13 20:56:08

If you can find the store cards, bring them if you can. I was thinking of a new
project idea for this.

* * *

Posted by, meznak on 2008-12-24 11:38:13

It appears that Albertson's is phasing out their loyalty cards, so I'd like to
see/make a version similar to 2.0v5 with a single barcode. I'd like to see how
2.0v5 has been working for you, but the results excel file link appears to be
broken..

* * *

Posted by, meznak on 2008-12-24 11:43:09

It seems the link to the .bmp for 2.0v5 is broken, too. It should point to
http://www.phx2600.org/graphix/vip/VIP25.bmp

* * *

Posted by, PHLAK on 2008-12-26 11:24:14

Fixed the link.

* * *

Posted by, Terrordrone on 2008-09-09 12:34:55

i think i have a bunch of cards from stores back east to like the piggley
wiggley and food lion also ive always wanted to try out other cards with bar
code (i. e. phone cards and military ids) i know the mag stripe on the back of
military ids fucks up tyhe little hand held scanner machines that bouncer used
to(they may still) use at some bars to scan for fake ids
