The Joys of Rooting Your Android Phone Part 2 by, HalfSight
============================================================
Recently I got a new Motorola Droid X. This article will be more information
than actual hacking or modding. Google bought the Android OS in 2005 and it has
had a rocky path to success. Often being compared with the iPhone, the Android
operating system offers one main difference, openness. Programmed in Java and
run on a Linux kernel, Android offers a lot to the phone community. Although
Android's success has been through openness, as other big manufacturers get
their fingers in the jar we are seeing some things being locked down and
controlled a bit more. The newest Moto Droid X is a prime example of corporate
control. This phone has a locked bootloader will continue to be locked until the
encrypted technology can be hacked through. On the original G1, Google's
flagship Android phone, you were able to change the bootloader to different
versions with relative ease.This process puts you in danger if bricking your
phone if you are inexperienced, so if you are thinking about flashing a new
bootloader, do your research.

As I get into Motorola that brings us into fragmentation. Many people believe
that so many companies making so many different iterations of Android is
diluting the system. Many Androids now have some form of proprietary software
(bloatware) installed on them. Some of the companies even slap their own skin on
the OS. HTC has Sense, Motorola has Blur and there are a few others. And these
different OS's come in different major Android versions. Some are 2.2 or 1.6 or
2.1. However as far as i can see this is no different than windows. If I can't
install Windows 7 x64 on a Pentium 3 from gateway does that make Windows
fragmented? We have 4 or 5 different versions of windows on every release,
however they are not called out on fragmentation. In recent news, Google has
reported that when Gingerbread, Android 3.0, is released, there will be more
high end hardware requirements. Like a 1 Ghz processor and at least a 3.5 in.
screen for starters. However I don't see a reason to get annoyed that the
software is advancing with the hardware.

So as we move forward and more companies start focusing on blocking the hack, we
will most likely see more creative ways of modding in the community. Many of
these companies say that the locked bootloaders are for our benefit, after all,
we would be running “unstable” software version. They say this may create an
unsatisfactory user experience. This type of corporate reasoning does not even
give the user a choice. Many people have rooted their phones without issue since
the first G1. The community has done the trial and error and provided free R & D
for the Android phones they are hacking. Many of these developers do this on
their own time, and they do a very good job. Before I learned to root my android
phones the experience was slow and cumbersome. I believe rooting unlocks the
potential of the Android OS on any device. Here is a great example of how far
people have taken the android OS:

Dream Drone:
http://forum.xda-developers.com/showthread.php?t=615204&highlight=Dream+drone!
[1]

Nexus one Launched 5 Miles in the air for testing as a viable satellite.
http://www.wired.com/gadgetlab/2010/07/nexus-one-phone-rides-a-rocket-up-28000-feet/
[2]

Once you have rooted your phone the possibilities seem endless, from Drones to
Satellite testing, I think android will stand the test of time. Hopefully Google
will continue to produce Developers phones that are made to root and hack with.
Maybe we will even see a company that only does Rooted Android phones out of the
box. The future is bright for this Linux OS and we will be hoping for the best
from our favorite companies.

Links:
------
[1]
http://forum.xda-developers.com/showthread.php?t=615204&amp;highlight=Dream+drone%21
[2]
http://www.wired.com/gadgetlab/2010/07/nexus-one-phone-rides-a-rocket-up-28000-feet/


Comments
--------

Posted by, maxwell on 2010-08-31 22:52:36

While Android definitely represents a major victory for open source software, I
don't think that the success of Android is mostly caused by it's utilization of
open source, but rather google's innovation through using the phone as a
wireless hot spot, use of unix technologies (scripting languages, unix file
system, etc).

Saying that Android's success is because it is open source is like saying Mac OS
X is popular because it is an official UNIX operating system (a blessing not
even RHEL has been honored with).

I still can't get over them programming smartphones in Java. Why they would use
Java over C++ is astounding. If compiled Java is considered too slow for serious
use in systems programming, why would it be considered ok for systems
programming on smartphones, which have even less resources than personal
computers?

Anyway great article, I think I might buy a droid just to get to hack on UNIX
with my phone! However I was under the impression that Android let users access
the root account freely, is this not the case? If not, why would they want to
restrict access to the root user account?
