Aether Tap (PCB Creation Process)
=================================
Posted by, Penguin on 2010-02-22 18:05:59

The following will be a sequence of steps detailing the PCB creation process
that I subscribe to. If you have any questions or comments feel free to email me
directly or post a question in the comments. I will also include images which
correspond to each step in this process, I will indicate that an image
corresponds to a certain step by adding a reference id Example: (1) where the
number in the parentheses corresponds to an image index in the gallery below.

I'm assuming in this process that you are familiar with creating dextrin glue
for toner transfer paper, If not, no worries simply read this guide on creating
dextrin coated toner transfer paper By Triston J. Taylor, the original process
is attributed to a make.com user by the alias Cashsale.

http://www.radagast.org/~dplatt/hamradio/How_to_make_laser_toner_transfer_paper.pdf [1]

Without the dextrin coating its nigh impossible to create such high resolution
boards with any fidelity so I highly recommend investing in some dextrin or
creating it in the process described in the above link.

as a side note my dextrin comes from my pyrotechnics / chemistry stash because
dextrin is also used as a water soluble adhesive for creating fireworks stars /
shells as well as compact smoke bombs and other items.

Places to buy dextrin:

United Nuclear [2]

Ebay [3]

Cheap Chems [4]

STEP 1: INITIALIZE

Begin by printing out a to-scale representation of the front and back of your
boards on separate pieces of paper (1), make sure that along with each side’s
copper mask you also print any Vias and or pads which need to be present. In
eagle layers that would be [Top Copper, Vias, and Pads] for the “front” and
[Bottom Copper, Vias, and Pads] for the “back”.

If you look at the final board layout image you’ll see that I have also
strategically placed alignment marks at the 4 edges of the board, these are
marks that I can line up later to ensure that the front and back layers are
perfectly aligned, which is important because if they are skewed then your via's
and pads wont line up and the board will become useless.

STEP 2: PREPARE SUBSTRATE

Next, cut out an amount of silicone sealed laser photo paper (2) which
completely covers your design(3) (refer to this pdf [5] if you don’t know what
that means), you will need one piece for each layer you are printing, make sure
to leave about 1/8 to 1/4 inch extra border which will make it easier for you to
insert the copper clad later and tape the edges to align them.

STEP 3 APPLY DEXTRIN:

Next we are going to coat one side of these two pieces of photo paper with
dextrin adhesive(4), again if you don’t have any please refer to the how to
create dextrin PDF in the previous posts. Begin by using an eye dropper to place
3-4 drops of dextrin glue on the paper (use more or less depending on the
surface area you are working with, in my case 3 or 4 was the most I needed) at
first the dextrin glue will tend to bead up(5)(6), that’s OK, just keep
spreading using a roller or a small paint brush until it begins to get tacky at
which point it will begin to adhere evenly. Obviously repeat this step again for
the second layer if you are producing one.

I have had some people ask me what a coated piece of paper is supposed to look
like, so for reference i have included a photo(7) where the left piece is coated
with dextrin (very light yellow coating) and the right piece of paper is not
coated. You’ll also notice the coated piece is slightly curled up which is OK,
if you want it to flatten out then just heat it for about 30 seconds under a
warm light bulb to dry it otherwise rest assured your laser printer will dry it
out plenty quick.

STEP 4: PRINT

Next, using a small amount of masking tape go ahead and tape your dextrin coated
paper over the original design template that you printed out(8).
And print!(9) Remember to mirror one of your sides otherwise you’ll find its
curiously hard to line up your layers in the next step…

STEP 5: ALIGN LAYERS

Now remove the masking tape from the dextrin paper and arrange the two layers
such that they are facing one another and line them up, this step is crucial,
especially if you have a complex board, once the two layers are lined up then
tape them together using more masking tape(10)(11), leaving an opening in at
least one side to slide the copper in after we prepare it.

STEP 6: PREPARE COPPER CLAD

Next cut out a piece of copper clad to match your board size, in my case
that’s 3.5 by 2 inches, use an Xacto to score the board and then snap it or
even cut it out with a good pair of scissors, either way just make sure that
after you have your piece cut out that you clean it. Copper clad oxidizes(12)
while it sits in storage so you need to scrub that layer off(13) with some steel
wool or a pot cleaner, after you have taken the layer of oxidation off it
doesn’t hurt to wipe the entire board down with some acetone or alcohol(14) to
remove any dust or oils that might be present.

Notice the difference in the copper before(12) and after(13) cleaning in the
images.

STEP 7: PREPARE FOR TRANSFER

Next you’re going to slide your freshly cleaned and dry copper clad in between
your two dextrin coated copper mask layers making sure to line the board up with
the edges of your mask, its hard to show this step with an image(15) but it
should be fairly self explanatory what you’re doing here.

STEP 8: TRANSFER

Next you need to apply heat and pressure to the entire sandwich in order to
transfer the toner to the copper clad from the paper (hence the name toner
transfer method) I use a small lamination machine(16)(17) because it applies
even and consistent pressure and heat which tends to produce excellent results,
I have also used a clothes iron with mixed results, if you use a lamination
machine 8-10 passes through should be plenty, if you use an iron the rules vary
from iron to iron so you’ll have to play with it and see what works. Generally
speaking 5 minutes of solid ironing should do the trick, and make sure you put
something between the transfer paper and the iron like a layer of wax paper
otherwise you will burn your transfer paper.

STEP 9: DISSOLUTION

After you transfer the toner to the copper clad you need to remove the paper
that the toner is also fixed to, this is where the dextrin comes into play, by
soaking the entire sandwich in warm water(19) you expose the dextrin to water
making it dissolve and separate the toner from the paper effortlessly.You will
see wrinkles start to form in the paper(20) as the water penetrates into the
dextrin layer and dissolves it.

STEP 10: SEPARATION

After letting the board and transfer paper soak for about 5 minutes its time to
peal the paper off the copper clad, Be gentle and peal back slowly, if a little
paper stays behind its OK but ideally the separation should be effortless due to
the dextrin(21)(22)(23). If there is paper remaining simply remove it by rubbing
it off, you just want to make sure its out of all the spaces between the toner
because if it isn’t it will act as an etch-resist and it will cause bridging
in your board.

STEP 11: CORRECTIONS

After you’re satisfied that there isn’t any paper left where it shouldn’t
be look over your entire board and make sure there aren’t any breaks in your
traces(25)(26), if there are use a fine point sharpie and draw them back
in(27)(28), the sharpie ink will act as an etch resist and prevent the breaks
from actually etching out.In the image you can see some red tinted areas where I
have used a sharpie to correct some gaps in toner.

STEP 12: ETCHING

Finally we are ready to etch the board, I typically use ferric chloride(29)
which takes approximately 15 minutes to complete an etch at room temperature,
after the board is done etching the copper will have been removed where there
was no toner or other etch-resist(30)(31), but the toner will remain, use the
same steel wool or pot cleaner that you used to originally clean your copper
clad to remove the toner from the now fully etched board.

STEP 13: ADMIRE YOUR WORK

At long last you have your completed board ready to solder(33)(34)(35).

Don't forget to recycle your etchant(32), ferric chloride can be used many many
times over and isn't bad after once use.

More images and a couple videos of a demonstration of this process can be found
at http://www.phx2600.org/archive/2009/09/05/september-2009-meeting-history [6]

[nggallery id=42]



Links:
------
[1] http://www.radagast.org/%7Edplatt/hamradio/How_to_make_laser_toner_transfer_paper.pdf
[2] http://unitednuclear.com/index.php?main_page=product_info&amp;cPath=16_17_69&amp;products_id=133
[3] http://shop.ebay.com/?_from=R40&amp;_trksid=p3907.m38.l1313&amp;_nkw=dextrin&amp;_sacat=See-All-Categories
[4] http://www.cheap-chemicals.com/chemicals.asp?Sort=D
[5] http://www.radagast.org/%7Edplatt/hamradio/How_to_make_laser_toner_transfer_paper.pdf
[6] http://www.phx2600.org/archive/2009/09/05/september-2009-meeting-history/
