Kool Numberz: The Quickest Way to Cool!
=======================================
Posted by, dual_parallel on 2010-07-24 18:41:46

Fascinated by phreaking? Want to taste the excitement of telephonic exploration,
but just don’t have the time? Well, this article is for you! With this simple
method, you’ll fly through the phone lines, finding the coolest numbers before
you can say “toll fraud!”

This article details the items you need to scan and how and where to scan to
find the coolest numbers, quick. Let’s begin with the few free things you need
to start impressing friends and family with cool numbers right away! Let’s go!

First, you need toll access. You likely have a cell phone or a VoIP line, and if
you’re lucky you big spender you, you have a land line with toll access. You
will be making “long distance" calls within the NANPA, most likely the US and
Canada. Next you need internet access. Yes, you need to access the online to get
the infos on the juiciest exchanges. You will need a text editor or word
processor. Notepad++ on Windows or nano on Linux are examples. Mac is not
supported for cool stuff.

The last thing you need is your finger. Because you’ll be di, di, dialing your
way to cool in no time! It helps to have a desktop set with programmable dialing
so you can at least program the *67 1, or more if you find a particularly
interesting exchange. With everything in place, head to bellsmind.net [1] and
click “frontend” to access the Bell’s Mind NPA-NXX/CLLI search. That’s
where you’ll determine where to scan.

Enter the NPA of the area you’re interested in to get a list of exchanges.
Cycle through the list of assigned exchanges to find those assigned to RBOCs or
CLECs. Once you find one, start dialing from 9990 to 9999 to find the coolest
numbers. Once you find one, record it in your text editor using the BM2L format
so you can easily share and search your numbers later on. What’s that you say?
You want to save even more time? Ok! You can even just dial 9999 to find cool
numbers! Wow! What kind of numbers will you find? Test lines, parked error
messages, carriers, voicemail access lines and more!

So you found a cool number, what now? Record the number and see if you can
extend its coolfulness. If it’s a voicemail system hit * or #. Try biblical
names in directories, like Michael, Paul and John, and try passwords like 1111,
1234 and the extension. If you find cool numbers, maybe extend your scan. Try
different one-thousand blocks, like 0000 to 0009. Or go to handscan.net and
generate a 100 or 1000 list and scan the day away!

The limits are limitless! With this simple scanning method, you too can show
cool numbers to your friends and family and the get the same blank stares a real
phreak gets in no time! So scan safe, my friend, remember to write those numbers
down and use a cool accent when someone answers. Because you’re officially a
phreak! With Kool Numberz! Guaranteed!



Links:
------
[1] http://bellsmind.net


Comments
--------

Posted by, Good with computar on 2010-07-26 11:05:03

Haha,

What is this I'm not even the whole thing!

* * *

Posted by, decoder on 2010-07-25 05:33:39

Coolsville, Daddy-O.

* * *

Posted by, maxwell on 2010-09-01 19:26:25

I do not understand why Mac OS X is so detested among the hacking community.
There is a stereotype that it offers less control over the system, or is less
oriented towards technically proficient users. Mac OS X is an official UNIX
operating system that ships uses bash as its default shell, comes with Python,
Perl, and several other programming languages, and uses the UNIX file system and
philosophy. 

It's belittlement by Linux users is understandable because it is only partially
open source, yet you rarely see those same hackers criticize Solarix or AIX, the
two major closed source Unices. It seems that people criticize it because it is
cool among the moderately technically savvy to hate Apple in general, with or
without an actual technical criticism of the OS or even the hardware. I
recommend Linux because it is open source, but out of Windows or Mac OS X, Mac
OS X is the clear winner on every technical level. 

AAnnnnyyywaayyy, interesting article, thanks for sharing the info.

* * *

Posted by, p0d on 2010-07-28 08:36:34

Cool piece.
